I don't know if you all know this and I
know that the world is watching I know
this because I'm on the bench every day
and this isn't the only heinous crime
that appears in this court the National
Crime Victimization survey that's done
by the Justice Department annually
reports that 310 out of every 1000
assaults are reported to police which
means that two out of three go
unreported the voices of the survivors
have asked everyone report keep your
voice up Rachel's voice hopefully will
raise these numbers of reports and all
of your voices but that statistic does
not include children 12 and under one in
ten children will be sexually abused by
their 18th birthday
one in seven girls one in 25 boys by
their 18th birthday that means that in
the United States I'm not talking about
any other country but in the United
States 400,000 babies born in the u.s.
will become victims of child sexual
abuse it stops now speak out like these
survivors become part of the army
I do one case at a time and I really so
very much appreciate all of you thank
yous I've read some of the Twitter's and
Facebook's and all of what's going on in
the media I'm not special I'm doing my
job if you come into my courtroom any
Wednesday and watch sentencing I give
everybody a voice
I give defendants away their families
when they're here I give this immature
voice I try to treat everybody like
family because that's the justice system
that I was raised to believe in I came
to this country stateless I'm
naturalized my father's Maltese my
mother's German and I was raised on old
country values and my grandmother always
told me and my parents always told me my
grandfather to that America is the
greatest country I believe that it's why
I served in the military that's why I've
always some community service I'm not
really well-liked because I speak out
I don't have many friends because I
speak out if you ask me a question you
better be ready for the answer I speak
out because I want change because I
don't believe in hiding the truth and
I'm not saying I'm always right
but I try I also don't believe that one
size fits all when it comes to something
another reason I listen I know that
there are some judges for every crime
they give the same punishment I don't
think that's justice
I believe in individualized sentencing I
follow the Constitution and I believe
our system works I also believe these
survivors now there's case law about how
I can consider what I can consider and
first and foremost my sentence reflects
the seven in regard to who defendant
plaintiff labeled but the remainder of
you 161 others add to the credibility of
those seven so technically I'm
considering everything everyone because
you're crying
all of your crimes the depth of them
have cut into the core of this community
and many communities and all of the
families and people we don't even know
and sir
the media has asked me to release your
letter I'm not going to do that counsel
may object the media may object but
there is some information in here that
troubles me in regard to the victims and
I don't want them revitalized by the
words that you have in here but I do
want to read some more of your letter
and the reason I want to do that is
because I've considered it in sentencing
as an extent as an extension of your
apology
and whether I believe it or not so I
want you to hear your words I've already
read some and I'm not reading everyone
well let me begin the federal judge went
ballistic at sentencing since I pled
guilty to the state cases and spent ten
percent on the federal case and ninety
percent on the state cases and civil
suits
she gave me 60 years instead of five to
twenty years in parentheses three
consecutive 20-year sentences I pleaded
guilty to possession of corn from nine
two thousand four to twelve two thousand
four four months the prosecutor even
admitted that I never belonged to any
porn site any chatrooms was not on the
dark web and also they could not prove I
viewed it it was all deleted of course I
shared my electronics and I could not
prove that show for four months of
pouring possession from 2000
for I was sentenced to 60 years not
proper appropriate fare going down a few
lines what I did in the state cases was
medical not sexual but because of the
porn
I lost all support thus another reason
for the state guilty plea let me move
down for you
so I've tried to avoid a trial to save
the stress to this community my family
the victims yet look what is happening
it is wrong putting these down further I
was at the doctor because my treatments
worked and those patients that are now
speaking out were the same ones that
praised and came back over and over and
referred family and friends to see me
the media convinced them that everything
I did was wrong and bad they feel I
broke their trust hell hath no fury like
a woman scorned
it is just a complete nightmare the
stories that are being fabricated to
sensationalize this then the AG would
only accept my plea if I said what I did
was not medical and was for my own
pleasure they forced me to say that or
they were going to trial and not
accepting the plea
I wanted to plead no contest
but the AG refused that I was so
manipulated by the AG and now acqua Lina
and all I wanted was to minimize stress
to everyone like I wrote earlier going
down a little bit further
in addition with the federal case my
medical treatments with the Olympic /
National Team gymnastics were discussed
as part of the police the FBI
investigated them in 2015 and found
nothing substantial because it was
medical now they are seeking the media
attention and financial rewards
would you like to withdraw your plea
because you are guilty aren't you are
you guilty sir
the new sign language has become
treatment these clothes these air quotes
I will never see them again without
thinking of you and your despicable acts
I don't care how they're used I will
always think of quotes and the word
treatment it was not treatment what you
did it was not medical there is no
medical evidence that was ever brought
when this case first came to me and I've
told you this and I apologized to the
Olympians and athletes but I have five
children two dogs my parents live with
me I work four jobs I don't have much
time for television I don't watch sports
although last year I was a soccer coach
much to the laughter of my family I
didn't know anything about you your name
or anything that was going on
and so when I kept saying we're going to
trial here's the date and everyone
wanted more time I said nope use the
cutoff and then the cases were merged
and we delayed it and I still thought
well maybe there's a defense of medical
treatment why did I think that because
it's my job to be fair and impartial but
also because my two brothers and my
father are very well known and respected
doctors real doctors with real
treatments and research dedicated to
healing I haven't considered that in
this case but I have heard from your
survivors now that they trust doctors
like I trust the doctors in my family
and the doctors I go to but I still
thought well there's a defense of
medical treatment and there are changes
in the medical community every day for
the betterment
so up until the time you fled I believed
that maybe there was a defense here
despite fulfilling the information I was
ready for trial your counsel was ready
for trial
the Attorney General's Office was ready
for trial you sir decided to plead
because there was no medical treatment
you did this for your pleasure
and your control this letter which comes
two months after your plea tells me that
you have not yet owned what you did that
you still think somehow you are right
that you are a doctor that you're
entitled that you don't have to listen
and then you did treatment I wouldn't
send my dogs to you sir
there's no treatment here you finally
told the truth
in action is an action silence is
indifference justice requires action and
a voice and that is what has happened
here in this Court
a hundred and sixty eight buckets of
water or placed on your so-called match
that got out of control
I also like law enforce or like the
Attorney General want to thank law
enforcement for their investigation but
I also want to be the voice on behalf of
these survivors who asks law enforcement
to continue their fine work and to also
include the federal government there has
to be a massive investigation as to why
there was inaction why there was silence
justice requires more than what I can do
on this bench
I wanted to also applaud all of the
council in via train general's office I
want to also applaud defense council you
all have done fine work you've made me
proud of our legal system we all work
together for the betterment of our
communities and that is law enforcement
prosecutors defense counsel
investigators there are countless people
it's the only way our system works we
need this balance so all of you when I
look at myself as Lady Justice my arms
are like this they are balanced
prosecution defense are balanced it only
starts to tip after there's a plea and
after I take into consideration
everything that's happened so I want
everyone to understand I've also done my
homework I always do people vs. black
alaskey I'm sure I slaughtered the name
I apologize but it is spelled in w ACL
AWS K I 286 Misha 634 - 2009 case and in
it and I want you to clearly understand
it says plainly the law does not limit
victims impact statements to direct
victims
it doesn't say and I have found nowhere
that limits me from having you here all
of your videos
as I said before when counsel came to me
and said we're not going to go to trial
despite our Court having already sent
out 200 of the 800 juror requests and
they told me their plea now would I
consider it move trial there was the
agreement between us because I've always
and they know it they are familiar with
me let people speak and I wanted all
victims and we had a discussion about
which victims and of course there was an
objection to one of them I let it come
in anyway that was part of the plea that
you entered into to allow the victim
impact statements because they after
that discussion I know your lawyers as
good as they are sat down with you and
said the judge is going to allow this
and when it was down to it I know it
also because this was signed by the
Attorney General by defendant and by
defendants counsel on November 22nd 2017
aside from the letter that you wrote a
couple of months after your plea which
tells me you still don't get it there's
something I don't understand and I want
to make clear sir you knew you had a
problem that is clear to me you knew you
had a problem from a very young age even
before you were a doctor you could have
taken yourself away from temptation and
you did not but worse yet there isn't a
survivor who hasn't come in here and
said how world-renowned you were I trust
what they say you could have gone
anywhere in the world to be treated you
could have gone to any resort any doctor
place where you could get treatment in
Europe they have all sorts of hidden
places for things like this no one had
to know and you could have found some
treatment some help taken some medicine
you would have done that if you had
cancer I know you would have your about
self-preservation but you decided to not
address what's inside you that causes
this control urge that causes you to be
a sexual predator
so your urge is escalated and based on
the numbers that we all know go
unreported I can't even guess how many
vulnerable children and families you
actually assaulted
your decision to assault was precise
calculated manipulative devious
despicable I don't have to add words
because you're survivors have said all
of that I don't want to repeat it
you can't give them back their innocence
their youth you can't give a father back
his life before one of your victims her
life when she took it I can't return the
daughter to the mother the father to the
daughter
you played on everyone's vulnerability
I'm not vulnerable